README.md, before:

# Conan Recipe and SYCL as a CMake Language for ComputeCpp
This repository contains a recipe for repackaging ComputeCpp as a conan package together with a set of CMake modules that allow the use SYCL without any usage of macros.

---------------
#### WARNING: Both the Conan recipe and the CMake modules are highly experimental. They are likely to break as development of both ComputeCpp and the scripts themselves progress.

---------------

## Creating a Conan package
The conan recipe won't download ComputeCpp by itself. You need to download it from the [Codeplay website](https://developer.codeplay.com) and place the tarball into the same directory as `conanfile.py`. After that, you can create your package as usual:

```bash
cd conan-computecpp
conan create . codeplay/testing
```

## Using ComputeCpp with CMake
> Note that the `FindComputeCpp.cmake` module from the SDK will still work with the conan package.

The recipe also installs an experimental set of CMake modules that integrate SYCL tightly into CMake such that enabling SYCL is as simple as `find_package(ComputeCpp)`:


**CMakeLists.txt**

```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.4)
project(hello_sycl)

# The usual conan boilerplate
if(EXISTS "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    include("${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    conan_basic_setup(TARGETS NO_OUTPUT_DIRS)
endif()

# This will enable SYCL as a CMake language and set compute++ to be its compiler
find_package(ComputeCpp REQUIRED)

# The device compiler will be automatically invoked on each .cpp file.
# Every target containing SYCL code will implicitly link against ComputeCpp
add_executable(app my_parallel_code.cpp)
```

**conanfile.txt**

```ini
[requires]
computecpp/0.8.0@codeplay/testing

[generators]
cmake
```

**Build process:**

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
conan install ..
cmake .. [-GNinja]
ninja
```

When invoking CMake, the configuration log should print out something similar to this:

```
-- The C compiler identification is GNU 8.1.0
-- The CXX compiler identification is GNU 8.1.0
-- Check for working C compiler: /usr/bin/cc
-- Check for working C compiler: /usr/bin/cc -- works
-- Detecting C compiler ABI info
-- Detecting C compiler ABI info - done
-- Detecting C compile features
-- Detecting C compile features - done
-- Check for working CXX compiler: /usr/bin/c++
-- Check for working CXX compiler: /usr/bin/c++ -- works
-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info
-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info - done
-- Detecting CXX compile features
-- Detecting CXX compile features - done
-- Current conanbuildinfo.cmake directory: /home/morris/Projects/hello_sycl/build
-- Conan: Compiler GCC>=5, checking major version 8.1
-- Conan: Checking correct version: 8.1
-- Conan: Using cmake global configuration
-- Conan: Adjusting language standard
-- Found SYCL: /home/morris/.conan/data/computecpp/0.8.0/codeplay/testing/package/5ab84d6acfe1f23c4fae0ab88f26e3a396351ac9/bin/compute++ (found version "CE 0.8.0")
-- The SYCL compiler identification is ComputeCpp CE 0.8.0
-- Check for working SYCL compiler: /home/morris/.conan/data/computecpp/0.8.0/codeplay/testing/package/5ab84d6acfe1f23c4fae0ab88f26e3a396351ac9/bin/compute++
-- Check for working SYCL compiler: /home/morris/.conan/data/computecpp/0.8.0/codeplay/testing/package/5ab84d6acfe1f23c4fae0ab88f26e3a396351ac9/bin/compute++ -- works
-- Detecting SYCL compiler ABI info
-- Detecting SYCL compiler ABI info - done
-- Configuring done
-- Generating done
-- Build files have been written to: /home/morris/Projects/hello_sycl/build
```

## Opting out of SYCL

To exclude just a couple of files, use `set_source_files_properties`:

```cmake
add_executable(app my_parallel_code.cpp cpu_only.cpp more_cpu_only_code.cpp)
set_source_files_properties(cpu_only.cpp more_cpu_only_code.cpp PROPERTIES LANGUAGE CXX)
```

To make SYCL opt-in, you have to enable the `CXX` language after the `find_package(ComputeCpp)` call:

```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.4)
project(hello_sycl LANGUAGES C)

if(EXISTS "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    include("${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    conan_basic_setup(TARGETS NO_OUTPUT_DIRS)
endif()

find_package(ComputeCpp REQUIRED)
enable_language(CXX)

# The host compiler will be invoked for each .cpp file unless overridden by set_source_files_properties
add_executable(app my_parallel_code.cpp cpu_only.cpp more_cpu_only_code.cpp)
set_source_files_properties(my_parallel_code.cpp PROPERTIES LANGUAGE SYCL)
```

## Current Limitations
- This is completely untested on Windows
- Currently only the SYCL driver mode is supported. Using a separate compiler for the host code might be feasible
- The rpath won't be set correctly unless the `LINKER_LANGUAGE` of the target is forced to `CXX`
- `CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD`, `CMAKE_SYCL_STANDARD` and compile features are not supported. This will probably require an upstream change to CMake.
- TriSYCL is not supported yet

Commit message:

Raise minimum CMake version to 3.7, add prerequisites section to README

README.md, after:

# Conan Recipe and SYCL as a CMake Language for ComputeCpp
This repository contains a recipe for repackaging ComputeCpp as a conan package together with a set of CMake modules that allow the use SYCL without any usage of macros.

---------------
#### WARNING: Both the Conan recipe and the CMake modules are highly experimental. They are likely to break as development of both ComputeCpp and the scripts themselves progress.

---------------

## Prerequisites
- [CMake 3.7 or greater](https://cmake.org/)
- [Conan](https://conan.io/)

Both CMake and Conan are also available on `pip`:

```bash
pip install --user cmake conan
```

## Creating a Conan package
The conan recipe won't download ComputeCpp by itself. You need to download it from the [Codeplay website](https://developer.codeplay.com) and place the tarball into the same directory as `conanfile.py`. After that, you can create your package as usual:

```bash
cd conan-computecpp
conan create . codeplay/testing
```

## Using ComputeCpp with CMake
> Note that the `FindComputeCpp.cmake` module from the SDK will still work with the conan package.

The recipe also installs an experimental set of CMake modules that integrate SYCL tightly into CMake such that enabling SYCL is as simple as `find_package(ComputeCpp)`:


**CMakeLists.txt**

```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.7)
project(hello_sycl)

# The usual conan boilerplate
if(EXISTS "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    include("${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    conan_basic_setup(TARGETS NO_OUTPUT_DIRS)
endif()

# This will enable SYCL as a CMake language and set compute++ to be its compiler
find_package(ComputeCpp REQUIRED)

# The device compiler will be automatically invoked on each .cpp file.
# Every target containing SYCL code will implicitly link against ComputeCpp
add_executable(app my_parallel_code.cpp)
```

**conanfile.txt**

```ini
[requires]
computecpp/0.8.0@codeplay/testing

[generators]
cmake
```

**Build process:**

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
conan install ..
cmake .. [-GNinja]
ninja
```

When invoking CMake, the configuration log should print out something similar to this:

```
-- The C compiler identification is GNU 8.1.0
-- The CXX compiler identification is GNU 8.1.0
-- Check for working C compiler: /usr/bin/cc
-- Check for working C compiler: /usr/bin/cc -- works
-- Detecting C compiler ABI info
-- Detecting C compiler ABI info - done
-- Detecting C compile features
-- Detecting C compile features - done
-- Check for working CXX compiler: /usr/bin/c++
-- Check for working CXX compiler: /usr/bin/c++ -- works
-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info
-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info - done
-- Detecting CXX compile features
-- Detecting CXX compile features - done
-- Current conanbuildinfo.cmake directory: /home/morris/Projects/hello_sycl/build
-- Conan: Compiler GCC>=5, checking major version 8.1
-- Conan: Checking correct version: 8.1
-- Conan: Using cmake global configuration
-- Conan: Adjusting language standard
-- Found SYCL: /home/morris/.conan/data/computecpp/0.8.0/codeplay/testing/package/5ab84d6acfe1f23c4fae0ab88f26e3a396351ac9/bin/compute++ (found version "CE 0.8.0")
-- The SYCL compiler identification is ComputeCpp CE 0.8.0
-- Check for working SYCL compiler: /home/morris/.conan/data/computecpp/0.8.0/codeplay/testing/package/5ab84d6acfe1f23c4fae0ab88f26e3a396351ac9/bin/compute++
-- Check for working SYCL compiler: /home/morris/.conan/data/computecpp/0.8.0/codeplay/testing/package/5ab84d6acfe1f23c4fae0ab88f26e3a396351ac9/bin/compute++ -- works
-- Detecting SYCL compiler ABI info
-- Detecting SYCL compiler ABI info - done
-- Configuring done
-- Generating done
-- Build files have been written to: /home/morris/Projects/hello_sycl/build
```

## Opting out of SYCL

To exclude just a couple of files, use `set_source_files_properties`:

```cmake
add_executable(app my_parallel_code.cpp cpu_only.cpp more_cpu_only_code.cpp)
set_source_files_properties(cpu_only.cpp more_cpu_only_code.cpp PROPERTIES LANGUAGE CXX)
```

To make SYCL opt-in, you have to enable the `CXX` language after the `find_package(ComputeCpp)` call:

```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.4)
project(hello_sycl LANGUAGES C)

if(EXISTS "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    include("${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/conanbuildinfo.cmake")
    conan_basic_setup(TARGETS NO_OUTPUT_DIRS)
endif()

find_package(ComputeCpp REQUIRED)
enable_language(CXX)

# The host compiler will be invoked for each .cpp file unless overridden by set_source_files_properties
add_executable(app my_parallel_code.cpp cpu_only.cpp more_cpu_only_code.cpp)
set_source_files_properties(my_parallel_code.cpp PROPERTIES LANGUAGE SYCL)
```

## Current Limitations
- This is completely untested on Windows
- Currently only the SYCL driver mode is supported. Using a separate compiler for the host code might be feasible
- The rpath won't be set correctly unless the `LINKER_LANGUAGE` of the target is forced to `CXX`
- `CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD`, `CMAKE_SYCL_STANDARD` and compile features are not supported. This will probably require an upstream change to CMake.
- TriSYCL is not supported yet
